[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does anybody
have any questions about?
Yeah, Mark?
>> Mark: This one was in
the chat room at the beginning.
So I'm not sure if they
answered it themselves, but
what means tagline in an animal object,
like any string?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
yeah, it could be any string,
it could be any string, so the top.
>> Speaker 3: So no spot for animal
dating, that's what you were looking for.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What was that?
>> Speaker 3: Your go to spot for
animal dating, that was the tagline?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well it would
be like your user tagline, so
on your profile I don't know,
like under your name you could say like-
>> Mark: I'm the hottest sheep on
the farm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
>> Mark: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Something to
that effect, something to that effect.
So, like single sheep looking for
love, something to that effect, okay.
>> Mark: And other animals.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What?
>> Mark: And two other animals.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and
two other sheep, sometimes cows.
>> Mark: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Just kidding, so
that's just gonna be a solution.
I wanna thank Katrina, who's my
awesome lead TA at Hack Reactor for
providing the solutions.
She is awesome.
Okay, so first thing is we're just
gonna create an empty animal object.
So we're just using the object literal
notation, storing in a variable.
We're giving it a name,
so animal.username.
We're gonna call it Mittens and it's gonna
have a tagline, which is pet me, and
so this is dot notation,
this is bracket notation.
Again, at this point
they're interchangeable.
So here we're creating an array.
I know we haven't gotten to arrays, but
I'm assuming that you've used them before.
An empty array, and then we're assigning
that empty array to animal.noises.
So when we console log our,
one second here.
When we console log our animal object, we
see in our console that we have an object,
should print out something like this.
We have an empty array with a tag line,
and a user name.
Thumbs, did everyone get that far?
Is everyone being honest?
Cool, awesome, thank you everyone.
So, for the counting one, we are going to
loop through all of
the properties in the object.
So we have key and every time we loop
we're gonna increment our counter.
So count plus plus is the same as
saying count equals count plus 1,
it's just a short hand, and
here we're gonna do that check
I'm gonna recommend that we
always use triple equals.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: Can you explain
that a little bit?
That's one thing that I've
never really understood.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Triple
equals versus double equals?
So triple equals is a strict check, and
then double equals is more lenient.
So for example, if we do string one
double equals one might return through.
Even though that might not be
what you are looking for, and
then, because Java Script has some weird
like falsy, truthy boolean things.
It's better just to always do
a strict check with the three equals.
>> Speaker 4: Could you
argue that in some cases
you'd wanna use double equals because.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: You might not be sure what
the value is, or something like that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
I mean hopefully.
>> Speaker 4: Maybe if you were
developing an app should you try to force
yourself to using triple
equals all the time, and.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, you.
>> Speaker 4: And ensure that you know
what this-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Even though
JavaScript's really flexible,
you should try to be strict.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And kinda
know what your expecting.
You don't want your app to give you
something that you're not expecting.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, that makes sense.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cuz who
knows the consequences of that?
So try not to.
If you really need to for some reason,
then if you're working with some
other code that you don't
really have control over, and
you know what you're doing, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Thanks.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm?
>> Speaker 5: Some of the type conversions
can be variable on how the browser
manufacturer implements it as well,
so you might not have the same-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, and
that's also a good point.
>> Speaker 5: Same
behavior across browsers.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Absolutely.
>> Mark: I just wanted to clarify
something, that the variable returns from
those for-in loop is always the name of
the property, not the property itself.
Is that correct?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The variable
return from the for-in loop.
Well, there's no variable
here being returned, for
example, if I return the variable here-
>> Mark: So what key gets set to there in
the for-in
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What key is it any
given moment?
>> Mark: Yeah, it's the name of
the property, not the property itself.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so it's
the property so we have it like a property
name and then a property value, and so the
key is always gonna be the property name.
If you think of an object as like a filing
cabinet or a some language like python
called them dictionaries, you can call it
dictionary or a hash, you can think of
it as a filing cabinet where we have
the files and then there's a label.
So the label in which we're gonna look up,
our files, is gonna be the property name,
and then what's contained within
those folders is gonna be the values.
So for example if you want to look up
the user name in your filing cabinet.
You would have to say,
filingcabinet.username, so
that means you're gonna be opening
the filing cabinet, looking through,
selecting that file who's tab, says.
I don't know if people even know what
filing cabinets look like anymore,
but whose tab says username, and
you pull out that file and you open it.
What's contained in it is the value,
and that's like the metaphor I
like to think of for an object.
So, and the key would be the property
name, which is that tab.
Cool, awesome.
>> Speaker 6: I just wanted to
make a comment on equals equals,
that's basically allowing
typical version and
Cal Simpson's new you don't
know JavaScript book series.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 6: He covers a lot of
type origin.
In JavaScript, in his fourth book in
the series called Types and Grammar.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Speaker 6: Its like,
a good place to go if you want to
learn the ins and outs of coercion.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Awesome, cool.
So back to the exercise,
/ai we have this for loop, and
here we're going to count excuse me.
We're gonna count how many times
we're looping through, and
we know that whatever this number is,
it's gonna be the number of properties
we have in our object, right?
So every time we loop we're
gonna increment the counter.
We're also gonna do
this if-else statement.
So it's always gonna check if the key,
that property name,
equals the string username.
If so, it's gonna come into this block and
console.log.
Hi my name is and then name.
And so notice here we're
accessing the value at that key
versus on this line we're
accessing the property name.
So, important thing and
we're doing bracket notation
again because key is a variable.
And just remember in loops when you have
like var i equals zero in some loops,
or key those are always
gonna be variables.
And so that should be a que if you
are looping that you're gonna be using
the bracket notation and
not that dot notation.
So in here the same thing
except if it's a tag line
you I like to say, and
then animal key in this case it's pet me.
So a follow up question is
what happens if you return
hi my name is plus whatever instead
of using console log inside the loop.
What's gonna happen.
Anyone try that out?
>> Speaker 6: Me.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Did you get it
to get there?
Who got to that point?
Okay, so
can I see thumbs on who got to this part?
Okay so most people didn't okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
Well, the answer is that when you put
a return statement inside a loop,
actually I don't know if you can even put
a return statement outside of a function.
>> Speaker 5: So that's,
there's exceptions.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay cool, so but
if this was inside of a function and
you put a return statement inside
the loop what it would do,
it would immediately stop looping and
return out of the function.
We'll get into more detail about that when
we get to functions in a few minutes.
But that's something important,
that's why I have you console.logging and
not returning because
it would stop the loop.